
Definition:-
------------
Inheritance in Java is a key object-oriented programming (OOP) concept that allows a class (called the child class or subclass) 
to inherit fields and methods from another class (called the parent class or superclass). 
This promotes code reuse and establishes a hierarchical relationship between classes.

Inheritance is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object. 
It is an important part of oops

Inheritance provides a way to create a new class from an existing class. 
The new class is an extended version of the existing class such that 
it inherits all the non-private fields (variables) and methods of the existing class.
The existing class is used as a starting point or as a base to create the new class.



Types of Inheritance:-
-------------------------
On the basis of class, there can be three types of inheritance in java: single, multilevel, and hierarchical.

In java programming, multiple and hybrid inheritance is supported through interface only. We will learn about interfaces later.

1. Single : In single inheritance, a class inherits from one and only one parent class. This is the simplest form of inheritance.

   class B -----> class A

2. Multi-level : In multi-level inheritance, a class inherits from a class that itself inherits from another class.
   This creates a chain of inheritance.
 
   class C ------> class B --------> class A

3. Hierarchical : In hierarchical inheritance, multiple child classes inherit from a single parent class.
   class B -------> class A <--------- class C

4. Multiple :  class B <--------- class A -----------> class C , 
   multiple inheritance is not supported by java?
   To reduce the complexity and simplify the language, multiple inheritance is not supported in java.
   In multiple inheritance, a class inherits from more than one parent class. Java does not support multiple inheritance 
   with classes to avoid ambiguity caused by the Diamond Problem. However, Java supports it through interfaces.
   
   key: Child inherits from both Parent1 and Parent2.
   
5. Hybrid : In hybrid inheritance, a combination of two or more types of inheritance (e.g., single and multiple) is used. 
   Since Java doesn't support multiple inheritance with classes, hybrid inheritance is implemented using interfaces.

   key:  Child combines features of both Parent1 (interface) and Parent2 (class).